# Holly Flax

**Hollis Partridge** "**Holly**" **Scott** (*[née](née "wikilink")*
**Flax**) is a fictional character from the
[US](United_States "wikilink") [television
series](television_series "wikilink") *[The
Office](The_Office_(U.S._TV_series) "wikilink")*, played by [Amy
Ryan](Amy_Ryan "wikilink"). She is an original character, and not based
on any character from the
[British](The_Office_(UK_TV_series) "wikilink") version of the show.

Initially introduced in season 4, Holly served as a replacement HR
Representative for the Scranton branch of [Dunder
Mifflin](Dunder_Mifflin "wikilink"), and quickly developed a romantic
relationship with [Michael
Scott](Michael_Scott_(The_Office) "wikilink"), the regional manager.
After facing numerous challenges in their relationship, Holly and
Michael ultimately get engaged and move to
[Colorado](Colorado "wikilink") towards the end of season 7.

## Character history

### Season 4

Holly arrives at [Dunder Mifflin](Dunder_Mifflin "wikilink") to serve as
the replacement for [Toby Flenderson](Toby_Flenderson "wikilink"), the
previous HR Representative for the Scranton branch. Michael initially
dislikes Holly because she is part of Human Resources, but quickly falls
in love with her after she playfully makes a joke about Toby's dullness.
Holly is subjected to hazing by co-worker [Dwight
Schrute](Dwight_Schrute "wikilink"), who convinces her that [Kevin
Malone](Kevin_Malone "wikilink") is mentally challenged, a belief she
continues to harbor until season 5. When Dwight attempts to put a
[raccoon](raccoon "wikilink") in Holly's convertible, Michael berates
Dwight and loudly proclaims that Holly is the "best thing that has
happened to this company since [World War II](World_War_II "wikilink")."
Holly invites Michael to go out for dessert following Toby's going away
party, but Michael turns down her offer to go with his ex-girlfriend
[Jan Levinson](Jan_Levinson "wikilink"), who is pregnant and had asked
Michael to be there as if he were the child's father.

### Season 5

Holly and Michael's relationship continues to grow throughout the first
half of the season. After attending a new yoga class, Holly agrees to go
on a date with the attractive yoga instructor, much to Michael's dismay.
Holly buys tickets for [Counting Crows](Counting_Crows "wikilink"), but
the yoga instructor doesn't call her. Michael, who does not pick up on
several hints that Holly has given him about attending the concert with
her, purchases the tickets from her and rips them to pieces. She
ultimately considers him to be her best friend in the office. It is also
revealed that she was picked on as a child just like Michael.

In "[Baby Shower](Baby_Shower "wikilink")", Michael and the staff attend
Jan's baby shower; Michael tries to pacify Jan by purposely being cold
towards Holly, which makes her uncomfortable. However, despite
witnessing Michael's treatment of Holly throughout the day, Jan notices
the two of them have a lot in common, and orders Michael not to date
Holly. This, in addition to feeling no connection with Jan's baby,
prompts Michael to apologetically hug Holly and ask her out on a date,
which she accepts, visibly moved.

Holly and Michael begin a romantic relationship, eventually having sex
in the office on their third date. While organizing a fundraiser, CFO
[David Wallace](David_Wallace_(The_Office) "wikilink") notices Michael
and Holly kissing, and realizes they are in a relationship. In response,
Holly is transferred back to [Nashua](Nashua,_New_Hampshire "wikilink").
She and Michael plan to continue dating, but ultimately decide to break
up, realizing on the trip that the distance is insurmountable. Later,
Michael calls David and scolds him for transferring Holly from the
Scranton branch.

In "[Lecture Circuit](Lecture_Circuit "wikilink")", Michael goes to
Nashua with [Pam Beesly](Pam_Beesly "wikilink") to give a
[lecture](Lecture_Circuit "wikilink") about the Scranton branch; he
plans to find closure with Holly, but she is away on an HR retreat. It
is also revealed that she is dating
[A.J.](List_of_characters_from_The_Office_(U.S._TV_series)#A.J. "wikilink"),
one of her co-workers. This deeply upsets Michael and makes him unable
to do his presentation. Sneaking into Holly's office, Michael discovers
a file on her computer titled "Dear Michael" and copies it to his [flash
drive](USB_flash_drive "wikilink"). Pam volunteers to read the document
herself and deletes it afterward, telling Michael it said she still has
feelings for him.

In "[Company Picnic](Company_Picnic "wikilink")", Holly and Michael
reunite at the company picnic for the first time since she was
transferred. She is still seeing A.J., who arrives with her. David
Wallace lets Holly and Michael do a skit about the history of Dunder
Mifflin; the two decide to do a skit that spoofs *[Slumdog
Millionaire](Slumdog_Millionaire "wikilink")*. Michael and Holly
reminisce about the presentation and talk about one in the future. Holly
leaves with A.J., with Michael noting that it wasn't the right time to
talk to her, but that they will eventually find each other.

### Season 7

<span class="image placeholder" original-image-src="Holly_Season_7.jpg"
original-image-title="Holly in Season 7" width="160">Holly in [Season
7](The_Office_(U.S._season_7) "wikilink")</span> In "[Classy
Christmas](Classy_Christmas "wikilink")", Holly returns to Scranton to
fill in while Toby is away at jury duty. The initial excitement about
seeing her old friend again turns to anger, when Michael, jealous that
she is still with A.J., vandalizes A.J.'s gift to her - a
[Woody](Sheriff_Woody "wikilink") doll. Holly divulges to the women of
the office that A.J. won't commit, and reveals she's giving him an
[ultimatum](ultimatum "wikilink") to propose to her by New Year's.
Michael is cheered up by the news, as well as Holly lying to A.J. about
how the Woody doll got damaged. Following the holiday break, Holly and
A.J. break up, and her and Michael's friendship starts to rebuild
itself. Holly initially rejects Michael's advances, stating she doesn't
want to be involved with a co-worker again. However, they eventually
admit that they miss each other and share a kiss. Michael and Holly
start dating, and in the episode "[PDA](PDA_(The_Office) "wikilink")",
they decide to move in together.

As the season progresses, Holly's presence leads Michael to become a
more mature adult. When Todd Packer returns to the sales bullpen, Holly
initially trusts Michael's assessment of Packer, but confronts Michael
after Packer shows his true colors. When Michael tries to smooth things
over, Packer speaks disrespectfully about Holly; Michael decides not to
disclose that Packer's "promotion" in Florida is a prank by Jim and
Dwight, and as Michael and Holly watch him drive away, Michael admits
that Packer is "an ass."

In "[Garage Sale](Garage_Sale_(The_Office) "wikilink")", she discovers
that her aging parents need assistance and decides to move home to
Colorado. She briefly changes her mind when Michael seems reluctant,
stating that he is her life now. At the end of the episode, Michael
leads her through various spots in the building that are meaningful to
them. Finally leading her to the annex, Michael mentions that it was
where he first fell in love with her, and proposes to her in front of
the staff. She accepts the proposal, and afterwards, Michael announces
to the office that he's quitting his job to move to Colorado with Holly.

### Season 9

Though Holly does not make an appearance in the final season, Pam
reveals that Michael and Holly are living very happily together with
their children.

## Behind the scenes

In a 2021 interview on the Office Ladies podcast, Ryan revealed that she
was a fan of the show, and expressed interest to her agent about playing
a role. Writer [Paul Lieberstein](Paul_Lieberstein "wikilink"), who had
worked with Ryan before on *[The Naked
Truth](The_Naked_Truth_(TV_series) "wikilink")*, approached Ryan about
appearing on the show as Holly, a role which was initially for one
episode only.[^1] During the filming of "[Goodbye,
Toby](Goodbye,_Toby "wikilink")", Lieberstein commented that "we started
to see this really silly side that Amy brought to the character, and
\[we\] found almost like a junior Michael in her. And we all saw it and
knew what we had." Impressed by Ryan's performance, the writers hoped
that Ryan would return for the fifth season, as the crew had not made a
deal with her to film more episodes.[^2]

## Reception

Ryan's portrayal of Holly has received positive reviews from critics. In
an *[Entertainment Weekly](Entertainment_Weekly "wikilink")* article
about Holly's character, writer Darren Franich praised the addition of
Holly in season 5, writing, "Amy Ryan managed to achieve the impossible:
She made Holly seem like someone who could believably fall in love with
Michael Scott."[^3] In a review of "Classy Christmas" by *[The A.V.
Club](The_A.V._Club "wikilink")*, critic Myles McNutt wrote, "Holly is
legitimately perfect for Michael. She's just crazy enough to play along
with Michael's antics and just sane enough to know when he's crossed a
line".[^4] Alan Sepinwall of *[Uproxx](Uproxx "wikilink")* applauded
Holly's return in season 7, calling her a "welcome return."[^5]
