# Dwight Kurt Schrute III

**Dwight Kurt Schrute III** () is a character on the American television
series *[The Office](The_Office_(American_TV_series) "wikilink")* and is
portrayed by American actor [Rainn Wilson](Rainn_Wilson "wikilink").
Dwight is a salesman and assistant to [Michael
Scott](Michael_Scott_(The_Office) "wikilink"),[^1] at the fictional
paper distribution company [Dunder Mifflin](Dunder_Mifflin "wikilink"),
before his promotions in later seasons of the show. He also runs a [bed
and breakfast](bed_and_breakfast "wikilink") at Schrute Farms, is a beet
plantation owner, and in Season 7, becomes the owner of the business
park in which Dunder Mifflin is located.

Throughout the series, Dwight repeatedly attempts to become regional
manager of the Scranton branch of Dunder Mifflin by serving dutifully
under the regional manager character [Michael
Scott](Michael_Scott_(The_Office) "wikilink").

The character is based on [Gareth Keenan](Gareth_Keenan "wikilink") from
[the original British version of the
show](The_Office_(UK_TV_series) "wikilink"), who was played by actor
[Mackenzie Crook](Mackenzie_Crook "wikilink"). Notably, Dwight is the
only character who has both appeared and had dialogue in every episode
of the series.

Actor Rainn Wilson received three nominations for the [Primetime Emmy
Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy
Series](Primetime_Emmy_Award_for_Outstanding_Supporting_Actor_in_a_Comedy_Series "wikilink")
for his portrayal of the character.

## Casting

<figure>
<span class="image placeholder"
data-original-image-src="Rainn_Wilson_2011_Shankbone.JPG"
data-original-image-title="Rainn Wilson portrays Dwight Schrute."></span>
<figcaption><a href="Rainn_Wilson" title="wikilink">Rainn Wilson</a>
portrays Dwight Schrute.</figcaption>
</figure>

Dwight Schrute is portrayed by American actor [Rainn
Wilson](Rainn_Wilson "wikilink"). Other actors that auditioned for the
part were [Seth Rogen](Seth_Rogen "wikilink"), [Matt
Besser](Matt_Besser "wikilink"), [Judah
Friedlander](Judah_Friedlander "wikilink") and [Patton
Oswalt](Patton_Oswalt "wikilink")[^2][^3]

All original series characters from the UK version of *The Office* were
adapted for the US version of the show. Wilson watched every episode of
the original British series, and was a fan before he auditioned for the
U.S. version.[^4] Wilson had originally auditioned for [Michael
Scott](Michael_Scott_(The_Office) "wikilink"), a performance he
described as a "terrible [Gervais](Ricky_Gervais "wikilink")
impersonation".[^5] However, the casting directors liked his audition as
Dwight much better and hired him for the role. Wilson based Dwight's
hairstyle on the style he himself had when at the age of sixteen.[^6] In
an interview, he said that he went to a [barber](barber "wikilink") to
get "the worst haircut possible".[^7]

## Character information

When the series begins, Dwight Schrute is a competent salesman at the
[Scranton](Scranton,_Pennsylvania "wikilink") branch of Dunder Mifflin.
Dwight formally holds the title of "Assistant to the Regional
Manager"[^8] but constantly refers to himself as "Assistant Regional
Manager", attempting to elevate himself to second-in-command to branch
manager Michael Scott. Dwight craves authority over his co-workers and
relishes any minor task that Michael or anyone else will give him.[^9]

Although Dwight acts superior to many individuals and is often good in
crisis, he is shown to actually be quite gullible, ignorant, and
naive.[^10] For this reason, he is easily tricked and pranked by his
coworker [Jim Halpert](Jim_Halpert "wikilink").[^11] Dwight often speaks
in a halting, intense manner, even in casual conversations.[^12] At the
office, his most recurring business wear is a mustard-colored,
short-sleeved shirt with a dark necktie and a brown suit jacket. He
often uses [one-upmanship](one-upmanship "wikilink") to better himself
over his peers, such as boasting about how he trains specific parts of
his body. Dwight will sometimes engage in jokes and games in attempts to
please Michael, but often fails to do so because of Michael's perception
of himself as the jokester of the workplace. After Dwight temporarily
leaves Dunder Mifflin, it is shown that he has long been watering the
office plant and arranging the toys on Michael's desk in a manner that
made Michael happy—unbeknownst to Michael.

Dwight is a former [volunteer sheriff
deputy](auxiliary_police "wikilink"),[^13] but had had to step down
after breaking his pledge to help his boss, Michael, illegally pass a
[drug test](drug_test "wikilink") by giving him his urine in the episode
"[Drug Testing](Drug_Testing_(The_Office) "wikilink")." He is also a
[notary public](notary_public "wikilink"); this creates difficulties
when Angela desires to send him a notarized letter regarding their
break-up. He lives on his family's [beet](beet "wikilink") farm
alongside his cousin,
[Mose](List_of_characters_from_The_Office_(US_T.V._series)#Mose_Schrute "wikilink")
(played by producer/writer [Michael Schur](Michael_Schur "wikilink")).
Dwight has affinities for [paintball](paintball "wikilink"), [ping
pong](ping_pong "wikilink"), [survivalism](survivalism "wikilink"),
[Goju Ryu](Gōjū-ryū "wikilink") karate[^14] and weapons.

Dwight also shows affinity for various [science
fiction](science_fiction "wikilink") and [fantasy](fantasy "wikilink")
works; notably *[Battlestar Galactica](Battlestar_Galactica "wikilink"),
[Star Wars](Star_Wars "wikilink"), [Lord of the
Rings](The_Lord_of_the_Rings_(film_series) "wikilink")* and *[Harry
Potter](Harry_Potter "wikilink").*

In an episode commentary on the [season
one](The_Office_(U.S._season_1) "wikilink") DVD, Wilson refers to Dwight
as a "[fascist](fascist "wikilink") [nerd](nerd "wikilink")." In a
feature on the [season three](The_Office_(U.S._season_3) "wikilink")
DVD, Wilson describes Dwight as "someone who does not hate the system
but has a deep and abiding love for it".[^15]

### Family and childhood

In "[Lecture Circuit](Lecture_Circuit "wikilink")", Dwight claims to
remember his own birth, and his father, Dwight Schrute II, delivering
him from the [womb](womb "wikilink"), and his mother biting off her
[umbilical cord](umbilical_cord "wikilink").[^16] In "[Grief
Counseling](Grief_Counseling_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight states
that he was born a twin, but he "resorbed" his twin while still in his
mother's womb (this occurrence is called [twin embolization
syndrome](absorbed_twin "wikilink")), causing him to believe that he now
has "the strength of a grown man and a little baby". He also claims to
have been born weighing , rendering his mother incapable of walking for
three months and two days,[^17] and in "[Baby
Shower](Baby_Shower "wikilink")", he claims to have performed his own
[circumcision](circumcision "wikilink").

Little is known about Dwight's parents, except that his father used to
take him [hunting](hunting "wikilink"), cheated in games, made his
siblings and him biscuits for breakfast every morning, and that he
battled [obesity](obesity "wikilink"), high [blood
pressure](blood_pressure "wikilink"), and high
[cholesterol](cholesterol "wikilink").

Dwight lives in a nine-bedroom, one-bathroom farmhouse (with the single
bathroom located under the porch), as revealed in "[Office
Olympics](Office_Olympics "wikilink")" on his family's
[beet](beet "wikilink") farm with his cousin Mose. The cousins sell
beets to local stores, restaurants, and roadside beet stands.[^18]
Dwight uses part of his farm to grow [hemp](hemp "wikilink").[^19]
Dwight and Mose have also turned Schrute Farms into a ramshackle [bed
and breakfast](bed_and_breakfast "wikilink").

According to one of Dwight's web logs on NBC.com's "Schrute-Space", he
had an uncle, named Gunther, a goat farmer, who fled the Allied invasion
of Germany and married a [Finnish](Finnish_people "wikilink") woman,
with whom he had 17 children.[^20] He also had an Uncle Girt, who
revealed that the Schrute family has an ongoing hatred of [Harry S.
Truman](Harry_S._Truman "wikilink"), because they were staunch
supporters of [Thomas Dewey](Thomas_Dewey "wikilink"). In another blog,
he mentions a cousin named Heindl, who has received numerous injuries
and infections from an attack by a small dog.[^21]

## Interests

Dwight is trained in the art of [surveillance](surveillance "wikilink")
and served as a volunteer \[sheriff\]'s deputy in [Lackawanna
County](Lackawanna_County,_Pennsylvania "wikilink").[^22] He has a black
belt in [Goju-Ryu](Goju-Ryu "wikilink") karate, and is the
[senpai](Senpai_and_kōhai "wikilink") at his dojo.[^23] Dwight is a [pop
culture](pop_culture "wikilink") and
[sci-fi](Science_fiction "wikilink") enthusiast. In the episode "[The
Fire](The_Fire_(The_Office) "wikilink")", he mentioned the movie *[The
Crow](The_Crow_(1994_film) "wikilink")* as being his favorite film. He
hints at belief in fictional creatures such as
[androids](Android_(robot) "wikilink"), [zombies](zombies "wikilink")
and [vampires](vampires "wikilink").[^24] He enjoys playing [table
tennis](table_tennis "wikilink"), and states that many of his heroes are
table tennis players.[^25] His musical tastes vary, but [heavy
metal](Heavy_metal_music "wikilink") seems to be recurring.[^26]

He plays guitar and
[recorder](recorder_(musical_instrument) "wikilink"), and sings.[^27] He
is fascinated with cars; he usually checks a car's suspension,
especially [muscle cars](muscle_cars "wikilink"). His technological
talents are limited, but he shows a passion for the online role-playing
game *[Second Life](Second_Life "wikilink")*. He also shows an interest
in [trains](trains "wikilink"). In "[Todd
Packer](Todd_Packer_(The_Office) "wikilink")", it is revealed that
Dwight does not know who [Justin Bieber](Justin_Bieber "wikilink") is,
asking Jim "Who is Justice Beaver?", leaving Jim to answer "A
crime-fighting [beaver](beaver "wikilink")."

Dwight owns an impressive array of weaponry. In addition to [Laser
Tag](Laser_Tag "wikilink") and [paintball](paintball "wikilink")
equipment, he has a [crossbow](crossbow "wikilink") range at his farm
("[Office Olympics](Office_Olympics "wikilink")") and, when he was named
official Security Supervisor of the Scranton branch,[^28] hinted that he
might bring a [bo staff](Bo_(weapon) "wikilink") to work. He maintained
a hidden arsenal of weapons around the office, including [pepper
spray](pepper_spray "wikilink"), [nunchucks](Nunchaku "wikilink"),
[throwing stars](Shuriken "wikilink"), a [stun
gun](Electroshock_weapon "wikilink"), a
[boomerang](boomerang "wikilink"), [handcuffs](handcuffs "wikilink"), a
[nightstick](Club_(weapon) "wikilink"), a pair of [brass
knuckles](brass_knuckles "wikilink") and a [Chinese
sword](Jian "wikilink"), all of which were confiscated by Toby.

Dwight is vocal about his views on justice, which is reflected in his
television viewing habits, as he enjoys watching and has great
admiration for [Judge Judy](Judith_Sheindlin "wikilink"), as well as
[Vic Mackey](Vic_Mackey "wikilink") on *[The
Shield](The_Shield "wikilink")*. In "[The
Negotiation](The_Negotiation "wikilink")", [Roy
Anderson](Roy_Anderson_(The_Office) "wikilink") attacks Jim, because he
kissed Roy's [fiancee](fiancee "wikilink"), Pam, but Dwight intercepts
the attack with [pepper spray](pepper_spray "wikilink").[^29] Throughout
the episode, Jim attempts to show his appreciation, but Dwight refuses
to accept his gifts, simply stating "[Citizens](Citizens "wikilink") do
not accept prizes for being citizens".[^30] In "[Drug
Testing](Drug_Testing_(The_Office_episode) "wikilink")", Dwight finds
half of a [joint](Cannabis_(drug) "wikilink") in the parking lot, which
incites him to carry out a severe, and thorough, investigation.[^31]
When he discovers that Michael might have been exposed to illegal drugs
at a [concert](concert "wikilink"), he substitutes his own
[urine](urine "wikilink") during the mandatory drug test.[^32] Dwight
then resigns from his volunteer position at the Sheriff's Department,
because he feels that he is no longer worthy of working there. In
"[Frame Toby](Frame_Toby "wikilink")", Dwight states that he is skilled
at framing people, as well as animals, revealing that he once framed a
[raccoon](raccoon "wikilink") for opening a Christmas gift, and a bear
for eating out of the [garbage](garbage "wikilink"), although he had
made it obvious to the police that he wanted Toby to be imprisoned.[^33]
In the episode "[Women's
Appreciation](Women's_Appreciation "wikilink")", he is quoted as saying
"Better a thousand innocent men are locked up than one guilty man roam
free."

In "[Conflict Resolution](Conflict_Resolution_(The_Office) "wikilink")",
Dwight states that he does not like to smile, as showing one's teeth is
a submission signal in [primates](primates "wikilink"), and that
whenever someone smiles at him, "all \[he\] sees is a
[chimpanzee](Common_chimpanzee "wikilink") begging for its life." Dwight
owns many exotic pets including [piranhas](piranha "wikilink"), frogs,
an [arctic wolf](arctic_wolf "wikilink"), a
[raccoon](raccoon "wikilink"), a porcupine named Henrietta, and an
[opossum](opossum "wikilink"), although the wolf escaped due to poor
restraints and he flushed his piranhas down the toilet. He also has an
interest in bears, and is ready to debate the habits and characteristics
of different species of bears. He also has expressed a surprisingly
large affection towards baby otters, as shown in the cold opening of
"[Whistleblower](Whistleblower_(The_Office) "wikilink")".

In "[Costume Contest](Costume_Contest "wikilink")", Dwight claims to be
able to sit on a fence, and that he is even able to sleep on one,
stating that "The trick is to do it face down, with the post in your
mouth".

It is revealed in the "[Suit Warehouse](Suit_Warehouse "wikilink")"
episode that as a child Dwight collected cat feces.

## Relationships

In "[Drug Testing](Drug_Testing_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight states
that he likes his co-workers, "with four exceptions", leaving it up to
the audience to make educated guesses about whom these four exceptions
are.

### Angela Martin

Towards the middle of season 2, Dwight develops a secret relationship
with Angela Martin. Pam begins to suspect a relationship between the
two, in "[E-mail Surveillance](E-mail_Surveillance "wikilink")", by
observing their interactions, suspicions that are strengthened in "[The
Injury](The_Injury "wikilink")" and "[Conflict
Resolution](Conflict_Resolution_(The_Office) "wikilink")", and confirmed
by "[Traveling Salesmen](Traveling_Salesmen_(The_Office) "wikilink")",
during which Angela confides in Pam about her relationship, using code
names.[^34] In "[Michael's Birthday](Michael's_Birthday "wikilink")",
Ryan discovers the relationship between the two when he overhears a
coded conversation between them in the kitchen, while in "The
Negotiation" Jim discovers the relationship while coming out of the
office bathroom after quitting time, to find Dwight and Angela kissing
(he then tells the documentary crew that, with his silence, the debt he
feels to Dwight is repaid).[^35]

In the episode "[Fun Run](Fun_Run "wikilink")", Angela asks Dwight to
care for her sick cat, Sprinkles. Instead of caring for the feline,
Dwight feels he should kill it as a waste of resources, and then tells
Angela Sprinkles was dead when he arrived.[^36] When he lets the truth
slip out shortly after, Angela terminates their relationship. Jim, on a
visit to Dwight's beet farm, finds Dwight sitting alone at night,
contemplating Angela's [cherub](cherub "wikilink") figurine and moaning
in anguish.[^37]

In the [fourth season](The_Office_(U.S._season_4) "wikilink") finale
"[Goodbye, Toby](Goodbye,_Toby "wikilink")", Dwight is obviously hurt
when Angela's boyfriend, Andy, proposes to her. However, in the final
scene of the episode, Phyllis catches Dwight having sex with Angela in
the office.[^38]

In the [fifth season](The_Office_(U.S._season_5) "wikilink") premiere,
"[Weight Loss](Weight_Loss_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight and Angela
have resumed a covert relationship, using a storage room in the
warehouse to have sex. In "[Crime Aid](Crime_Aid "wikilink")", Andy and
Angela set a date for their wedding. After some advice from Phyllis,
Dwight gives Angela an ultimatum: call off the engagement, or he will no
longer be with her. She chooses to marry Andy. When Andy learns about
Angela's affair with Dwight, [a duel](The_Duel_(The_Office) "wikilink")
between Dwight and Andy takes place, but both realize that Angela has
been lying to them and break up with her. For quite some time
afterwards, Dwight and Angela avoid each other.

In the [season 6](The_Office_(U.S._season_6) "wikilink") episode "[The
Delivery](The_Delivery_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight, witnessing Jim
and Pam talk to customers about their unborn child, decides that he
wants a child, and asks Angela to be the mother. They sign an elaborate
contract, including eating guidelines for Angela to follow when she is
pregnant, and how the baby will be raised. While Angela is excited by
the reconciliation, Dwight doesn't share her romantic feelings. When
Dwight develops an interest in Pam's friend Isabel, he tells Angela to
forget about the contract; this infuriates Angela, and she sues him in
small-claims court. When an arbitrator tells them that the contract is
valid and would involve a \$30,000 settlement (because it would be
illegal to force Dwight and Angela to procreate), Dwight cuts a deal
with Angela for five sessions of sex. He then proceeds to abuse his
genitals in an effort to sterilize himself and fends off Angela's
efforts to be romantic.

In [Season 7](The_Office_(U.S._season_7) "wikilink"), after Angela meets
a [state senator](state_senator "wikilink") whom she finds much more
personable than Dwight, she voids the pact in
"[WUPHF.com](WUPHF.com "wikilink")".

In "[Jury Duty](Jury_Duty_(The_Office) "wikilink")", it is revealed
that, a month before her wedding to the state senator, [Robert
Lipton](List_of_characters_from_The_Office_(U.S._TV_series)#Robert_Lipton "wikilink"),
Dwight and Angela had sex, as Robert was not fulfilling Angela's sexual
needs, so Dwight believes that he is the baby's biological father.[^39]
In "[New Guys](New_Guys "wikilink")", it is revealed that he is not the
father.

In season 9, they become close again first when Dwight finds out that
Robert is cheating on Angela with Oscar, and later in "[Moving
On](Moving_On_(The_Office) "wikilink")" when Angela helps him take care
of his elderly aunt. They share a kiss, but afterwards both say that she
should remain faithful to her husband. After inheriting his aunt's beet
farm, Dwight starts a relationship with neighboring Brussels sprout
farmer Esther Bruegger ([Nora
Kirkpatrick](Nora_Kirkpatrick "wikilink")). When Dwight seems to be
getting serious with Esther and the Senator has publicly dumped Angela,
Angela breaks down and admits to [Oscar
Martinez](Oscar_Martinez_(The_Office) "wikilink") that she still loves
Dwight. On the day that he intends to ask Esther to marry him, Dwight
instead proposes to Angela. She says yes, finally admitting that he is
the father of her son Phillip ("[A.A.R.M.](A.A.R.M. "wikilink")").

### Michael Scott

Dwight holds a high level of respect for Michael, viewing him as a model
for success, and often participating with Michael's ill-conceived
schemes.[^40] However, he betrays Michael numerous times, such as when
he goes over Michael's head to vie for the manager's job in "[The
Coup](The_Coup_(The_Office) "wikilink")". Despite this, Michael
frequently dismisses Dwight and often appears embarrassed by his antics;
for much of the series, he also refuses to promote Dwight from
"Assistant to the Regional Manager" to "Assistant Regional Manager". In
later seasons, Dwight was shown to return the favor, such as Dwight
telling Michael that he would have a better career if he'd taken a job
at Home Depot. Several times throughout the series, however, it is
revealed that Michael does care about Dwight's feelings, and the two
sometimes share bonding moments. In "[Training
Day](Training_Day_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight is unhappy when the
open branch manager position goes to [Deangelo
Vickers](Deangelo_Vickers "wikilink"), and when he learns that Michael
did not recommend him for the job, as he led him to believe, he snubs
Michael and goes to a meeting Vickers has called, leaving Michael
standing outside, by himself. In "[Goodbye,
Michael](Goodbye,_Michael "wikilink")", Dwight is still frustrated with
Michael, but his hostility turns into heartfelt appreciation as Michael
hands him the recommendation letter. At first, the letter does not seem
to impress him, but, as he reads through, he realizes that Michael
really does respect him. They are later seen engaging in a friendly
paintball fight, and Dwight's loyalty to Michael is once again restored.
After Michael left, Dwight did not have the same respect for Deangelo
and Andy that Dwight previously had for Michael, implying that Dwight
truly respects and values Michael. In a deleted scene from "Finale",
Dwight stated that Michael sent him his "World's Best Boss" mug when he
became Regional Manager.

In the episode "Finale", as Jim explains that the "Bestest \[sic\]
Mensch" (best man) in Dwight's wedding must be older than him, Dwight is
disappointed. The camera then pans over to reveal that Michael returned,
much to Dwight's surprise and delight, and Jim has arranged for him to
fill in as best man. Michael watches as his "family" is sitting together
and is last seen dancing with Dwight.

### Jim Halpert

Dwight is frequently the victim of practical jokes by co-workers Jim
Halpert and Pam Beesly, including putting his desk supplies in the snack
machine, putting his stapler into Jello, and moving his desk into the
men's restroom, and replacing Dwight's desk with breakway giftwrap
replica, although it appears that he remains oblivious to Pam's
involvement; these pranks tend to exploit his stubborn and gullible
nature. Dwight's frustration with Jim's pranks reaches a crisis point in
"[Conflict Resolution](Conflict_Resolution_(The_Office) "wikilink")",
when Dwight threatens to quit unless Jim is transferred.[^41] Dwight
occasionally pulls successful pranks on Jim in turn, most prominently in
"[Classy Christmas](Classy_Christmas "wikilink")" where he subjects Jim
to a barrage of pranks revolving around snowballs. Professionally,
Dwight wins the 2005 Salesman of the Year Award, although, this is
likely due to, at least in part, his theft of Jim's largest client.[^42]

During "[Initiation](Initiation_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight tells
Ryan he regrets that he and Jim never got along. In "[Traveling
Salesmen](Traveling_Salesmen_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight quits and
hugs Jim as a farewell which surprises Jim as he does not know that
Dwight quit. Later, Jim is irritated when Andy replaces Dwight and even
says that he misses Dwight. Earlier in the same episode, Jim and Dwight
make an incredibly efficient sales team, functioning well as a duo and
thinking similarly in their tactics. The two were paired together when
they began as traveling salesmen at the company. In "[Company
Picnic](Company_Picnic "wikilink")" the two embrace in celebration after
Dwight sets Jim up to score the final point in volleyball. Dwight plans
to demote Jim from the Assistant Regional Manager spot, and make him
miserable, during "[The Job](The_Job_(The_Office) "wikilink")".[^43]

Dwight's relationship with Jim mellows somewhat in later seasons, and
they, at times, cooperate effectively on sales calls or running the
office in Michael's absence, sometimes even socializing together. Jim
often supports Dwight when he is genuinely hurt or in danger (such as in
"[Money](Money_(The_Office) "wikilink")" and "[Last Day in
Florida](Last_Day_in_Florida "wikilink")") and occasionally compliments
his successes (such as in "[Dwight K. Schrute, (Acting)
Manager](Dwight_K._Schrute,_(Acting)_Manager "wikilink")"). In "[The
Negotiation](The_Negotiation "wikilink")", Dwight saves Jim from [Roy
Anderson](Roy_Anderson_(The_Office) "wikilink") who was attempting to
punch Jim by pepper spraying Roy. However, continually refuses Jim's
gestures of appreciation, stating that he only acted in the line of
duty. However, when Jim is promoted to co-manager, Dwight's enmity
returns to full force, and he conducts an ongoing campaign to depose
Jim, who eventually resumes his old job as sales representative in
"[Manager and Salesman](Manager_and_Salesman "wikilink")".

In the final episode of the series,
"[Finale](Finale_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight asks Jim to be the
best man at his wedding. Jim throws Dwight a commendable bachelor party
rife with surprises (which Jim refers to as "guten pranken" supposed
german for "good pranks"). Before the wedding Jim informs Dwight that,
under Schrute tradition, he is not allowed to be best man as he is
younger than him. Jim surprises him with the arrival of [Michael
Scott](Michael_Scott_(The_Office) "wikilink"). The wedding proceeds in
Schrute tradition with Michael as Dwight's new best man. Later in the
episode Jim and Pam tell Dwight they are quitting so Jim can rejoin his
sports marketing firm now based in Austin, but Dwight fires them instead
so he can give them hefty [severance
packages](severance_package "wikilink").

### Pam Beesly

Although she is often involved in Jim's pranks on Dwight, Dwight has, at
certain times, displayed a curious sense of protectiveness towards her.
In "[Back from Vacation](Back_from_Vacation "wikilink")" and
"[Diwali](Diwali_(The_Office) "wikilink")", he comforts a tearful Pam,
and in "[China](China_(The_Office) "wikilink")", he secretly allows Pam
to [save face](Face_(sociological_concept) "wikilink") when she feels
vulnerable about her job abilities. In "[The
Job](The_Job_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight offers Pam the position
of "Secret Assistant to the Regional Manager", and following Jim's
advice concerning any offers from Dwight to be involved in something
secret, she accepts. Though Jim presumably meant this as the opening
move of a prank, Pam instead uses it as a bonding opportunity between
her and Dwight.

The two briefly become best friends while he suffers a
[concussion](concussion "wikilink") in the season 2 episode "[The
Injury](The_Injury "wikilink")". In the season 6 episode "[The
Delivery](The_Delivery_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight shows more
signs of his begrudging friendship with Jim and Pam during Pam's
pregnancy. In the episode, he is sent to the Halperts' house to retrieve
Pam's [iPod](iPod "wikilink"), while they are at the hospital. Instead
of finding the iPod and bringing it back to her, Dwight completely
rebuilds and repaints their kitchen, after discovering
[mold](Mold_(fungus) "wikilink"). He also advises Pam on how to keep her
daughter, Cece, from crying, during "[Viewing
Party](Viewing_Party "wikilink")", by relating his child rearing
experiences. Dwight's odd friendship with Pam is explored again in
"[Doomsday](Doomsday_(The_Office) "wikilink")". At this point, Pam is
the only one in the office who is able to understand Dwight's inner
feelings, as she successfully convinces him to deactivate his doomsday
machine. It is implied at the end of the episode that Dwight, despite
his outward contempt for his co-workers, feels a sense of responsibility
(and possibly even affection) towards them.

In a talking-head interview, in the episode
"[Tallahassee](Tallahassee_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight talks about
how first impressions last forever. He recalls that, when he first met
Pam, she said something to him that "slightly rubbed \[him\] the wrong
way", and while he has since loved working with her, even stating that
she is wonderful, due to that first impression, he hates her. In the
episode "The Whale", Dwight openly tells Pam that he considers her his
friend. In the final episode of the series, Dwight refers to Pam as his
"best friend", and he ensures that she and Jim get a large severance as
they leave Dunder Mifflin.

### Andy Bernard

As a result of the Scranton-Stamford merger, Dwight loses his number two
position to Jim and engages in an ongoing battle with new salesman [Andy
Bernard](Andy_Bernard "wikilink"), to gain Michael's favor for
"third-in-command". The struggle comes to a climax in "[Traveling
Salesmen](Traveling_Salesmen_(The_Office) "wikilink")".[^44] In Season
4, Andy and Dwight are shown to work well together as a sales team, but
Andy's successful pursuit of Angela, after she broke up with Dwight, was
irritating to him. When Andy gets engaged to Angela, Dwight is greatly
upset by this, and embarks on an affair with her. This affair culminates
in a short-lived fight between Andy and Dwight, when they discover
Angela has lied to both of them, about not having had sex with the
other. However, by the end of the fifth season, Andy and Dwight become
friends, and discover they both share a mutual interest in music and
hunting.[^45]

### Ryan Howard

In the beginning of the series, Dwight feels threatened by [Ryan
Howard](Ryan_Howard_(The_Office) "wikilink"), to whom Michael often
assigns personal tasks. He continues to resent Ryan, throughout the
second season, often addressing him as "Temp",[^46] even after Ryan
takes over Jim's position.[^47] In the beginning of season 2, Dwight's
friendship with Michael was slightly torn during "[The
Fire](The_Fire_(The_Office) "wikilink")", when Michael seems to be
viewing Ryan more favorably than Dwight, and in "[Performance
Review](Performance_Review "wikilink")", in which Michael must evaluate
Ryan.[^48] In "[Initiation](Initiation_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight
decides to assist Ryan, during his first sales call, although the two
get off to a rough start when Dwight [hazes](Hazing "wikilink") him in a
series of bizarre initiation rituals. Soon afterwards, Dwight takes Ryan
on his first meeting, which ends in disaster. Ryan then eggs the
potential customer's building out of spite, and Dwight develops some
respect for him.[^49]

During season 4, Dwight, along with Michael, comes to Ryan's rescue when
they visit him in New York City, when he gets into a scuffle.

Ryan and Dwight later team up again in season 6, when Dwight plans to
sabotage Jim's occupation, as branch co-manager.[^50]

### Romantic relationships

A subtle running joke throughout the series is Dwight's surprising
success with attractive women, with Michael often failing to "hook up"
at the same time. Despite Dwight's unusual appearance and mannerisms, he
manages to attract women, who usually develop stronger feelings for him
than vice versa. Michael has even pointed out how socially weird Dwight
is acting, only for the woman to brush it off. In « dinner party », he
arrives with a date to Michael’s house, the date being his former
babysitter. In "[Night Out](Night_Out_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Dwight
hooks up with a female [basketball](basketball "wikilink") player, while
Michael fails in his attempts with other women. As Michael and Dwight
leave the club, the woman calls out for Dwight to call her, which he
says to Michael that he will not do. In
"[Niagara](Niagara_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Michael and Dwight compete
for the attention of Pam's best friend, Isabel. When Dwight starts
talking about his farm, Michael tries to explain that no one can connect
with his experiences as farmer, only for Isabel to become interested in
Dwight's horses. Dwight ultimately manages to have sex with her, and she
begins to develop deeper feelings for him which he does not return,
although it is finally hinted in "[The
Delivery](The_Delivery_(The_Office) "wikilink")" that Dwight might have
more intimate feelings for her than he originally let on. They meet
again at the bar in "[Happy Hour](Happy_Hour_(The_Office) "wikilink")",
and bond further, kissing at the end of the episode. In season 9, he
begins to date an attractive neighboring farmer named Esther ([Nora
Kirkpatrick](Nora_Kirkpatrick "wikilink")). He ultimately ends his
relationship with her in "[A.A.R.M.](A.A.R.M. "wikilink")". In the final
episode, Dwight marries [Angela Martin](Angela_Martin "wikilink").

## Character reception

The Dwight Schrute character has had a very positive reception, and is
often cited as one of the most popular characters on the show. According
to *[Entertainment Weekly](Entertainment_Weekly "wikilink"),* he is one
of the "greatest sidekicks."[^51] In [TV Guide](TV_Guide "wikilink")'s
list of the top 100 characters in television history, Dwight was ranked
85th. In an [ABC News](ABC_News "wikilink") interview with Rainn Wilson,
the interviewer commented that "Words barely describe Dwight Schrute,
the suck-up salesman and assistant to the regional manager of the
Scranton branch for the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company..."[^52] and
"Dwight, as played by the 41-year-old Wilson, has become one of the
breakout characters in television comedy. Dwight is a survivalist geek,
a student of karate who likes to shoot a crossbow and watch "Battlestar
Galactica" on television. And he takes himself very, very
seriously..."[^53] *[E! News](E!_News "wikilink")* commented that Rainn
Wilson should be nominated for an [Emmy Award](Emmy_Award "wikilink")
for his performance of Dwight, commenting: "...Who's laughing now? Who's
laughing now, Dwight Schrute? Oh, only the ten million-plus people who
watched as you pepper sprayed the living daylights out of Roy for trying
to pop Jim in the face last night. My God, have I missed you, man. Mr.
Schrute, you are the reason I love my job, my friend. It is the
selflessly heroic actions of a man such as you that make television a
nice place to be on a Thursday night. You may just be an everyday
citizen who does not accept prizes for being a citizen, but you'd best
be accepting a supporting actor Emmy nod this year, because, hot damn if
you don't deserve it."[^54]

Another positive review of the character was given by
*[PopMatters](PopMatters "wikilink")*, an online entertainment news
site. The review stated: "One of the show’s ironies is that Michael and
Dwight, hapless though they might be within the office or in most social
settings, are actually top salesmen". Dwight approaches sales with the
same militaristic fervor as everything else in his life, and it pays off
for him (maybe that's one of the reasons why, when Jim gives Dwight one
of Benito Mussolini's speeches to deliver when he accepts a sales award
in Season Two, Dwight delivers it so enthusiastically that he gets a
standing ovation)".[^55] [Metalcore](Metalcore "wikilink") band [The
Devil Wears Prada](The_Devil_Wears_Prada_(band) "wikilink") named a song
"Assistant to the Regional Manager," alluding to Dwight's position. In
addition, the band created a T-shirt design that indirectly associates
itself with Dwight by strongly resembling him. It is named "Guy Wearing
Tie."[^56]

## Outside of *The Office*

### Bobblehead doll

In the episode "[Valentine's
Day](Valentine's_Day_(The_Office_episode) "wikilink")", Dwight is given
a [bobblehead doll](bobblehead_doll "wikilink") as a Valentine's gift,
from Angela. Following the episode, fans of the show petitioned NBC to
make the bobblehead doll available for purchase on their online
store.[^57] NBC responded by creating an initial run of 4,000 bobblehead
dolls, which sold out almost immediately.[^58] The creator of the show,
[Greg Daniels](Greg_Daniels "wikilink"), joked about the bobbleheads,
saying "Yes, they are fun, but they also serve a business purpose.
People who want to manage by consensus can buy six and keep them nodding
all the time to whatever they say."[^59] In 2010 Hallmark released a
smaller talking version of the doll as part of their 2010 Christmas
Keepsake Ornament selection.

### Résumé

In "[Halloween](Halloween_(The_Office) "wikilink")", Jim and Pam
uploaded Dwight's resume to "[Monster.com](Monster.com "wikilink"),
[Craigslist](Craigslist "wikilink"), and Google."[^60] A producer
actually did create a Monster account for Dwight and uploaded his résumé
a month before the episode aired. It can be found by employers with
resume [database](database "wikilink") access who search for salesmen in
[Scranton, Pennsylvania](Scranton,_Pennsylvania "wikilink").[^61] The
résumé stated that he was willing to relocate to another state,[^62]
wanted a salary close to \$30,000 (USD),[^63] desired the job title of
"Regional Manager",[^64] was currently "Assistant to the Regional
Manager",[^65] and had a [bachelor's
degree](bachelor's_degree "wikilink").[^66] The posted résumé also
stated: "My time spent at Dunder Mifflin was very enjoying. I had the
opportunity to learn from an experienced and talented boss. My branch
consistently was one of the top sellers of the company..."[^67]

### Schrute Farms

In the episode titled "[Money](Money_(The_Office_episode) "wikilink")",
Pam refers to a [TripAdvisor](TripAdvisor "wikilink") page for Dwight's
[bed and breakfast](bed_and_breakfast "wikilink"). This can be found by
searching for Schrute Farms.[^68] Jim and Pam discover that Dwight is
running the Schrute Farm as an "[agritourism](agritourism "wikilink")"
bed and breakfast. They spend the night there, taking part in
table-making demonstrations, beet wine-making, and distributing
[manure](manure "wikilink"). That night, however, Jim hears an unnerving
moaning sound throughout the night, later shown to be Dwight in his room
crying over his breakup with Angela. The TripAdvisor page said:

"Schrute Farms is the number one beet-related
[agritourism](agritourism "wikilink") destination in Northeastern
Pennsylvania. We offer the finest accommodations for the casual
traveller and/or radish enthusiast. Come join us and experience majestic
Schrute Farms."[^69]

Jim and Pam ("JandP2") also posted a review, which can be seen on the
reviews page. It read: "The architecture reminds one of a quaint Tuscan
beet farm, and the natural aroma of the beets drifts into the bedrooms
and makes you dream of simpler times. You will never want to leave your
room. The informative lecture will satisfy all your beet curiosity, and
the dawn goose walk will tug at your heart strings. Table making never
seemed so possible. Great story to tell your friends. Plenty of parking!
The staff's attention to detail and devotion to cleanliness was
limitless. From their enthusiastic welcome to the last wave good-bye,
Schrute Farms delivers."[^70]

An angry Angela also put a review up, and mentioned the death of her cat
as a main cause for the review. It said: "I have to warn people about
the proprietor of Schrute Farms—he may portray himself as a gentleman
farmer, but he is not what he seems! He killed my cat, Sprinkles! Who
knows what he might do to you or your loved ones..."[^71]

According to Dwight, during the [Civil
War](American_Civil_War "wikilink"), while the [Battle of
Gettysburg](Battle_of_Gettysburg "wikilink") was known for having the
most deaths, the battle of Schrute Farms was known for having the
highest DPA (deaths per acre). He also claimed it was the northernmost
battle during the Civil War. However, in reality, it was actually a safe
haven for men who wanted relief from the war to focus on artistic
lifestyles. It is insinuated that this was a camp for homosexual
soldiers. Melvin Fifer Garris is the only known soldier to write home
from Schrute Farms during the Civil War.

In a deleted scene from the Season 3 DVD set, it is shown that Dwight
won his farm in a game of Blackjack.

### Vice presidential bid joke

On the May 7, 2008, episode of *[The Daily Show with Jon
Stewart](The_Daily_Show_with_Jon_Stewart "wikilink")*, [US
Senator](US_Senator "wikilink") and [Republican
Party](Republican_Party_(United_States) "wikilink") presidential nominee
[John McCain](John_McCain "wikilink") joked that Dwight Schrute would be
his vice presidential candidate choice.[^72][^73] [Rainn
Wilson](Rainn_Wilson "wikilink") appeared on *[The Tonight
Show](The_Tonight_Show "wikilink")* on May 14, 2008, and read to [Jay
Leno](Jay_Leno "wikilink") a list of demands from Dwight in exchange for
being vice president.[^74] Included in this list was being able to pilot
[Air Force One](Air_Force_One "wikilink") at any time, and only to be
addressed as "Iceman" while piloting.[^75] He also demanded that [Jack
Bauer](Jack_Bauer "wikilink") be immediately promoted to [United States
Secretary of Defense](United_States_Secretary_of_Defense "wikilink"),
his [bunker](bunker "wikilink") to include a
[foosball](foosball "wikilink") table and be
[zombie](zombie "wikilink")-proof, and that the [Secret
Service](United_States_Secret_Service "wikilink") members be armed with
[nunchakus](nunchaku "wikilink"), [throwing
stars](throwing_star "wikilink"), and
[flamethrowers](flamethrower "wikilink").[^76] Finally, he demanded a
flamethrower, an [Iron Man](Iron_Man "wikilink") suit, and that [Michael
Scott](Michael_Scott_(The_Office) "wikilink") be an "ambassador to
Hawaii."[^77]

### In academic research

Researchers at [Brigham Young
University](Brigham_Young_University "wikilink"),
[Stanford](Stanford "wikilink") and [Northwestern
University](Northwestern_University "wikilink") demonstrated that social
outsiders, similar to Dwight's character, lead to better group decision
making. Media accounts of their published study reported that having a
Dwight Schrute around is good for business. Dwight was included in
articles about the research by [*Time*
magazine](Time_(magazine) "wikilink"),[^78] *[The Globe and
Mail](The_Globe_and_Mail "wikilink")*,[^79] *The [Salt Lake
Tribune](Salt_Lake_Tribune "wikilink")*[^80] and [Brigham Young
University](Brigham_Young_University "wikilink").[^81]

### Possible spin-off series and departure from *The Office*

On January 25, 2012, news broke that NBC was planning a spin-off series,
starring Wilson as Dwight, that would be set at Schrute Farms, Dwight's
bed-and-breakfast and beet farm.[^82] The spin-off was to have been
created by Wilson and executive producer [Paul
Lieberstein](Paul_Lieberstein "wikilink"), but *Office* developer [Greg
Daniels](Greg_Daniels "wikilink") would not have been involved.[^83] The
series was in the works for a premiere in early 2013, and would have
caused Wilson to leave *The Office* during the ninth season.[^84] The
spin-off was scheduled to have been introduced as a [backdoor
pilot](backdoor_pilot "wikilink") in a later episode of the ninth
season.[^85] Despite the news report, Wilson
[tweeted](Twitter "wikilink") "Don't believe everything you read in the
press, OK?"[^86] In October 2012, NBC announced that it was not
accepting the spin-off series.[^87] The pilot episode was still aired
during the ninth season of *The Office*, however, as episode 17, ‘The
Farm’.
